cloud: Clinic on TiDB Cloud (#19895)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-clinic.md

---
title: TiDB Cloud Clinic

> summary: Learn how to advanced monitoring and diagnostics of TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to use advanced monitoring and diagnostics of TiDB Cloud using TiDB Cloud Clinic.
```

---

# TiDB Cloud Clinic

> TiDB Cloud Clinic offers advanced monitoring and diagnostic capabilities on the TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud Clinic offers advanced monitoring and diagnostic capabilities for TiDB Cloud.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > Currently, the TiDB Cloud Clinic feature is only available for [TiDB Cloud Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-cloud-dedicated) clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Currently, TiDB Cloud Clinic is only available for [TiDB Cloud Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-cloud-dedicated) clusters.
```

## Prerequisites

> To use TiDB Cloud Clinic, you need to have an Enterprise support plan or higher on TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use TiDB Cloud Clinic, you need to have an **Enterprise** support plan or higher for TiDB Cloud.
```

> ## View the Cluster page
> 
> To view the Cluster page, take the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## View the **Cluster** page

To view the **Cluster** page, take the following steps:
```

> 1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud Clinic console](https://clinic.pingcap.com/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud Clinic console](https://clinic.pingcap.com/) and select **Continue with TiDB Account** to enter the TiDB Cloud login page.
```

> 2. Click the name of the target orgnization. The clusters in one project are displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. From the organization list, select your target organization. The clusters in the selected project are displayed.
```

> 3. Click the name of the target cluster. The cluster overview page is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the name of your target cluster. The cluster overview page is displayed, where you can view detailed information about your cluster, including:
```

> 2. From the organization list, select your target organization. The clusters in the selected project are displayed.

Reviewer 2: It seems that users have to enter and search the organization. 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b5370aee-c389-4fe5-9d2c-195455c1d2fe)

> 
> - Advanced Metrics
> - Top Slow Queries
> - TopSQL
> - Benchmark Report

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Advanced Metrics
    - Top Slow Queries
    - TopSQL
    - Benchmark Report
```

### Advanced Metrics

> TiDB Cloud Clinic uses Grafana to provide a wider range of TiDB cluster metrics. These include dashboards for TiDB, TiKV, TiFlash, BR, Lightning, TiCDC, TiDB resource control, and TiDB performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud Clinic uses Grafana to provide a comprehensive set of metrics for TiDB clusters. These metrics include dashboards for TiDB, TiKV, TiFlash, BR, Lightning, TiCDC, TiDB resource control, and TiDB performance.
```

To view the metrics dashboard, take the following steps:

> 1. Navigate to the **Cluseter** page of a cluster.
> 
> 2. Click the **Metrics** button.
> 
> 3. Click the name of target dashboard. The dashboard is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the [TiDB Cloud Clinic console](https://clinic.pingcap.com/), navigate to the **Cluster** page of a cluster.

2. Click **Metrics**.

3. Click the name of the dashboard you want to view. The dashboard is displayed.
```

The retention policy for advanced metrics is 90 days.

> ### Top Slow Queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Analyze top slow queries
```

> By default, SQL queries that take more than 300 milliseconds are considered slow queries.
> 
> On the default Slow Queries page, it can be challenging to quickly identify performance-impacting SQL queries when a cluster has a large volume of slow queries. Top Slow Queries provides aggregated analysis based on slow query logs. With this feature, you can easily pinpoint queries with performance issues, reducing overall performance tuning time by at least half.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, SQL queries that take longer than 300 milliseconds are considered slow queries.

On the default **Slow Queries** page, it can be difficult to quickly identify performance-impacting SQL queries when a cluster has a large volume of slow queries. The **Top Slow Queries** feature provides aggregated analysis based on slow query logs. With this feature, you can easily pinpoint queries with performance issues, reducing overall performance tuning time by at least half.
```

> Top Slow Queries will show the Top 10 Queries aggregated by SQL digest, can order by the following dimentions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Top Slow Queries displays the top 10 queries aggregated by SQL digest, sorted by the following dimensions:

```

> - Total Latency 
> - Max Latency
> - Avg Latency
> - Total Memory
> - Max Memory
> - Avg Memory
> - Total Count

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Total latency 
- Maximum latency
- Average latency
- Total memory
- Maximum memory
- Average memory
- Total count
```

To view slow queries in a cluster, take the following steps:

1. In the [TiDB Cloud Clinic console](https://clinic.pingcap.com/), navigate to the **Cluster** page of a cluster.

> 2. Click **Slow Query**.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if "Top Slow Queries" is the right option here.

Reviewer 3: Currently, it's the correct description. We will align the feature name and button text in the next release.

3. The top slow queries are displayed in the form of a table, and you can sort the results by different columns.

4. (Optional) Click any slow query in the list to display its detailed execution information.

5. (Optional) You can filter slow queries based on the target time range, the related databases, and statement kinds.

The retention policy for slow queries is 7 days.

For more information, see [Slow Queries in TiDB Dashboard](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dashboard-slow-query).

> ### TopSQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Monitor TopSQL
```

With Top SQL, you can monitor and visually explore the CPU overhead of each SQL statement in your database in real-time, which helps you optimize and resolve database performance issues.

> To view the TopSQL, take the following steps:
> 
> 1. Navigate to the **Cluster** page of a cluster.
> 
> 2. Click the **TopSQL** button.
> 
> 3. Select a particular TiDB or TiKV instance that you want to observe the load. You can adjust the time range in the time picker or select a time range in the chart to get a more precise and detailed look at the problem.
> 
> 4. Observe the charts and tables presented by Top SQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view TopSQL, take the following steps:

1. In the [TiDB Cloud Clinic console](https://clinic.pingcap.com/), navigate to the **Cluster** page of a cluster.

2. Click **TopSQL**.

3. Select a specific TiDB or TiKV instance to observe its load. You can use the time picker or select a time range in the chart to refine your analysis.

4. Analyze the charts and tables displayed by TopSQL.
```

For more information, see [TopSQL in TiDB Dashboard](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/top-sql). 

> ### Benchmark Report

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Generate benchmark reports
```

The Benchmark Report helps identify performance issues in a TiDB cluster during performance testing. After completing a stress test, you can generate a benchmark report to analyze the cluster's performance. The report highlights identified bottlenecks and provides suggestions for optimization. After applying these suggestions, you can run another round of stress testing and generate a new benchmark report to compare performance improvements.

> To use the benchmark report, take the following steps:
> 
> 1. Navigate to the **Cluster** page of a cluster.
> 
> 2. Click the **Benchmark Report** button.
> 
> 3. Select the time range to be analyzed in the benchmark report.
> 
> 4. Click **Create Report** to generate the benchmark report.
> 
> 4. Wait until the benchmark report is successfully generated. Click the **View** button to view the report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate a benchmark report, take the following steps:

1. In the [TiDB Cloud Clinic console](https://clinic.pingcap.com/), navigate to the **Cluster** page of a cluster.

2. Click **Benchmark Report**.

3. Select the time range to be analyzed in the benchmark report.

4. Click **Create Report** to generate the benchmark report.

5. Wait for report generation to complete. When the report is ready, click **View** to open it.
```
